
# 8. Nacl & Security Groups:

## 8.1. What is NACL ?

+ NACL stands for Network Access Control Lists.
+ It is a security layer for your VPC that controls the traffic in and out of one or more subnets.
+ It is an optional layer for your VPC.
+ You can set up a Network ACL similar to the security group that adds an additional layer of security to your VPC.


## Some important related to Network ACL:

+ Your custom VPC automatically comes with the default Network ACL which includes all inbound and outbound ipv4 traffic.
+ You can also create a custom network ACL and associates with a subnet. By default, a custom Network ACL denies all the 
  inbound and outbound ipv4 traffic until you add rules.
+ If you do not explicitly create Network ACL, then the default Network ACL automatically associated with the subnet.
+ You can associate multiple subnets with a Network ACL. However, a subnet can be associated with the single Network ACL at a time.
+ Network ACL is associated with both inbound and outbound rules that can either deny or allow the rules.

+ you define NACL Rules:

1. Rules have a number (1-32766), higher precedence with a lower number.
2. First rule match will drive the decision.
3. Example: if you define #100 Allow 10.0.0.10/32 and #200 DENY 10.0.0.10/32, the IP address will be allowed because 100 has
   higher precedence over 200.
4. The last rule is an asterisk (*) and denies a request in case of no rule match.
5. Aws recommends adding rules by increment of 100.


## Network ACL Components :

+ The following are the components of a Network ACL:

Rule number: Rule number is a number associated with every rule. Rules are evaluated starting with the lowest-numbered rule. 
------------ As soon as the rule matches traffic, the rule is applied regardless of whether the highest-numbered rule contradicts to it.

Protocol: You can specify any protocol that has a standard protocol number. For example, Http, Https, ICMP, SSH, etc.
----------
Inbound rules: It specifies the source of the traffic and the destination port.
--------------
Outbound rules: It specifies the destination traffic and destination port.
----------------


## Types of Network ACL :

+ There are two types of Network ACL:

1. Custom Network ACL
2. Default Network ACL



##  Creating a Network ACL :

+ Sign in to the AWS Management Console.
+ Move to the VPC service under the Networking and Content Delivery.
+ Click on the Your VPCs appearing on the left side of the console.
+ In the previous topics, we have already created a custom VPC, and its name is javatpointvpc.
+ Click on the Network ACLs appearing on the left side of the console.
+ Click on the create Network ACL.
+ Fill the following details to create a Network ACL.
+ Create .


_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________


## 8.2. What is Security Group ?

+ It adds a security layer to EC2 instances that control both inbound and outbound traffic at the instance level.
+ Maximum number of Security Groups that can exist per instance: 5
+ Maximum number of rules that can exist per instance: 5*50 + 20 = 270
+ Security Group is applied to an instance only when you specify a security group while launching an instance.
+ It is the first layer of defense.	
+ It is associated with an EC2 instance.	
+ It supports only allow rules, and by default, all the rules are denied. You cannot deny the rule for establishing a connection.

 

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   