# 5. Bastion Hosts:

## 5.1.What is Bastion Hosts:

+ A Bastion host is a special-purpose server or an instance that is used to configure to work against the attacks or threats. 
+ It is also known as the ‘jump box’ that acts like a proxy server and allows the client machines to connect to the remote server. 
+ It is basically a gateway between the private subnet and the internet. It allows the user to connect private network from an external 
  network and act as  proxy to other instances.

## 5.2. How bastion host works:

+ Bastion host basically provides an entry point into the private networks which are to be connected to the external network securing from the attacks.
+ A bastion host has both internal and external IP addresses. If users want to connect the internal instance without using external IP addresses 
  then it can connect to a Bastion host and then connect to your internal instances from that Bastion host. 
+ While using Bastion service you have to log in first to your Bastion host and then directed to the private instances. 


## 5.3. Create a Bastion Host :

### Craete Bastion Host In Public Subnet:

1. Launch an Linux Instance any Flavour which your comfortable with.
2. Create Security Group by allowing port 22 for your Office or Team members.
3. Test Connectivity to your Bastion Hosts from outside.

### Create Vm in Private Subnet for testing connectivity b/w this instance & bastion Host.

1. Launch an Linux Instance any Flavour which your comfortable with.
2. Test Connectivity to your Instance from Bastion Host.
3. click Security Groups, and then Create Security Group. 
   Give it a name, such as SSH-from-Bastion-host, and then create an SSH rule to only allow the private IP of the Bastion host, 
   






