
# 1. Aws Ec2 Basics:

## 1.1. What is an EC2 Instance ?

+ An Amazon EC2 instance is a virtual server in Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) for running applications on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure. 
+ It can serve as a practically unlimited set of virtual machines (VMs).
+ Amazon provides various types of instances with different configurations of CPU, memory, storage and networking resources to suit user needs.
+ Each type is available in various sizes to address specific workload requirements.

+ Instances are created from Amazon Machine Images (AMI). The machine images are like templates. 
+ They are configured with an operating system (OS) and other software, which determine the user's operating environment.
+ Users can select an AMI provided by AWS, the user community or through the AWS Marketplace. Users also can create their own AMIs and share them.


## 1.2. EC2 Instance Types :

+ Instance types are grouped into families based on target application profiles. These groups include the following:

### General purpose:

+ A general purpose instance is a VM that is designed to handle a variety of workloads. 
+ General purpose instances are optimized to have a high number of CPU cores, on-demand storage and memory. 
+ Some common use cases for general purpose instances include web server hosting and software development and testing.

### Compute optimized:

+ Compute optimized instances are used to run big data applications that require large amounts of processing power and memory on the AWS cloud. 
+ These instances are designed and optimized for running computational and data-intensive applications that require fast network performance, 
  extensive availability and high input/output (I/O) operations per second (IOPS). 
+ Examples of types of applications includes scientific and financial modeling and simulation, machine learning, enterprise data warehousing and 
  business intelligence.

### Graphics processing unit (GPU):

+ These instances provide a way to run graphics-intensive applications faster than with the standard EC2 instances. 
+ Systems that rely on GPUs include gaming and design work. For example, Linux distributions often take advantage of GPUs for rendering graphical
  user interfaces, improving compression speeds and speeding up database queries.

### Memory optimized:

+ Memory optimized instances use a high-speed, solid-state drive to provide ultra-fast access to data and deliver high performance. 
+ These instances are ideal for applications that require more memory and less CPU power, including open source databases, real-time 
  big data analytics and in-memory caches.

### Storage optimized:

+ Storage optimized instances are ideal for applications that require high I/O performance, such as NoSQL databases that store and retrieve data 
  in real time. 
+ They're also well suited for memory-intensive applications such as data processing, data warehousing, analytics workloads and log processing.

### Micro:

+ A micro instance is meant for applications with low throughput. 
+ The micro instance type can serve as a small database server, as a platform for software testing or as a web server that does not require 
  high transaction rates.
