# 4. Ec2 Instance Types:


+ There are different instance types.
+ Which one to use depends on the needs.

### Links to find Required Ec2 Instance Type:

https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/

## 4.1. General Purpose Instance

+ The General Purpose Instance balances computing, memory, and networking resources.
+ It fits many purposes. Such as:
   1. Application servers
   2. Gaming servers
   3. Backend servers for companies
   4. Small and medium databases
+ The General Purpose Instances are best when there is a balance between the resources.

## 4.2. Compute Optimized Instances

+ The Compute Optimized Instances are best there is a need for high compute.
+ This type is also good for application servers, gaming servers, and web applications.
+ The main difference is that this type is ideal for high-performance and compute-intensive needs.

## 4.3. Memory Optimized Instances

+ This type can deliver large dataset workloads fast.
+ Memory is a temporary storage area.
+ It loads from storage, holds the data, and processes it before the computer can run it.
+ The processing allows for a preloading process and gives the CPU direct access to the computer program.
+ The Memory Optimized Instances are best when huge amounts of data need to be preloaded before running the app.

## 4.4. Accelerated Computing Instances

+ This type use hardware accelerators.
+ The accelerators boost the data processing.
+ The Accelerated Computing Instances are best for graphics applications and streaming.

# 4.5. Storage Optimized Instances:

+ This type is best when you have large datasets on local storage.
+ Some examples:
  1. Large file systems
  2. Data warehouses
  3. Online transaction systems
+ The Storage Optimized Instances are designed to deliver many inputs as fast as possible.

