
# 1. IAM Users, Groups & Policies:

+ Users can Access AWS using 3 diff methos: 1. Aws Console 2. Aws Cli 3. Aws Sdk's.



## 1.1. IAM: Users & Groups 

+ IAM = Identity & Access Management, Global Service.
+ Root account created by default, shouldnt be used or shared.
+ Users are people within your organization, and can be grouped.
+ Groups only contains users, not other groups.
+ Users dont have to belong to a group, & User can belong to multiple groups.

### Example:


# 1.2. IAM: Permissions :

+ Users or Groups can be assighned JSon Documents called Policies.
+ These policies define the permissions of the users.
+ In AWS you apply the least privilege principle: Dont give more permissions than a user needs.

### Example :

## 1.3. Create Group:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.
2. In the navigation pane, choose User groups and then choose Create group.
3. For User group name, type the name of the group.
4. In the list of users, select the check box for each user that you want to add to the group.
5. In the list of policies, select the check box for each policy that you want to apply to all members of the group.
6. Choose Create group.
7. Assighn AWS ADMIN Permissions to the group.
8. Verify group created or not.



## 1.3. Creating IAM Users:

1. Sign in. Sign in as a root user. Provide username and password when prompted.
2. Select the Users menu. Navigate to the Users screen. You'll find it in the IAM dashboard, under the Identity and Access Management (IAM) drop-down menu on the left side of the screen. Click on Users.
3. Add a user. Click on Add User to navigate to a user detail form. Provide all details, such as the username and access type. 
4. Click on Next: Permissions to continue.
5. Add a user to already created group and what ever permissions applied to that group can be applied to this user for the same.
6. Finish the user setup. For this tutorial, we will skip the tags section of user creation and go to the review page. 
   Check the details of the username, AWS access type and permissions. Then, click Create user.
7. Verify user got created or not.


## 1.4. Login to AWS Console using above created user.

1. you can find account details by selecting user.
2. copy the sign-in url and try to login.


_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

# 2. IAM Policies:


## 2.1. IAM Policy Inheritence:


## 2.2. IAM Policy Structure:

### Consists of 

1. Version: policy language version, always include "2012-10-17".
2. Id: an identifier for the policy.
3. Statement: one or more individual statements (required).

### Example:



### Statements Consists of :

1. Sid: an identifier for the statement 
2. Effect: Whether the statement allows or denies access (Allow, Deny).
3. Principle: account/user/role to which this policy applied to.
4. Action: list of resources to which the actions applied to.
5. Condition: Conditions for when this policy is in effect.

 
#### Example:


